\section{An attack}
\label{sec:attack}

We now show that our above construction is insecure by illustrating an explicit
attack against our scheme. We show that this attack is applicable in the same
manner against our construction as it is applicable against the previous
PoPoW work~\cite{KLS}. PoPoW serves as the starting point and inspiration for
our protocol. The security proof is incorrect, and in fact the PoPoW protocol is
susceptible to a double-spending attack within the model (i.e., that can be
carried out by an attacker with less than 50\% hash power). During the
exposition of this attack, a patch for our construction, which will also lead to
a correct generic security proof, will become clear.

We focus on illustrating why the PoPoW construction of previous work is insecure
against an adversary controlling less than $50\%$ of hashing power. The attack
immediately carries over to our straw man construction introduced above, a
vulnerability we will address in later sections. We proceed in two steps. We
first show that a powerful attacker can break chain superquality with
non-negligible probability. Then we construct a concrete double spending attack
based on this observation assuming an attacker of sufficiently high hashing
power (but still below $50\%$). Note that maintaining chain superquality was not
in the original security model; however, we show how the property affects the
security of the underlying blockchain proofs.

\subsection{Interactive Proofs of Proof-of-Work}
In PoPoW~\cite{KLS}, the main algorithm of the verifier aims at distinguishing
between two candidate proofs $(\pi_A, \chi_A)$ and $(\pi_B, \chi_B)$. The honest
prover, having adopted $\chain_B$ during mining, initially produces the proof
$(\pi_B, \chi_B)$ as follows. First, the last $k$ blocks are sent as $\chi_B =
\chain_B[-k:]$. Then for the first part of the chain, $\chain_B[:-k]$, the
prover sets $\pi_B$ to be the $\mu$-superchain spanning $\chain_B$ for the
largest $\mu$ such that $|\pi_B| = m$, where $m$ is the protocol's security
parameter. The verifier ensures that $|\pi_A| \geq m, |\pi_B| \geq m$ so that
the proofs are not shorter than $m$ and then checks whether $\pi_A = \pi_B$; if
so, the decision is drawn immediately based on $\chi_A,\chi_B$ without
interaction. Otherwise, the verifier queries the provers for their claimed
anchored superchains $\chain_A\upchain^\mu$, $\chain_B\upchain^\mu$ at some
level $\mu$. The verifier starts querying at the highest possible level $\mu$
and descends until level $\mu$ is sufficiently low such that $b =
LCA(\pi_A\upchain^\mu, \pi_B\upchain^\mu)$ is $m$ blocks from the tip of the
chain for one of the proofs. That is, the querying stops at such $\mu$ when
$max(|\pi_A\upchain^\mu\{b:\}|, |\pi_B\upchain^\mu\{b:\}|) \geq m$. The winner
is designated as the prover with the most blocks after $b$ at that level; i.e.,
$A$, if $|\pi_A\upchain^\mu\{b:\}| \geq |\pi_B\upchain^\mu\{b:\}|$, and $B$
otherwise. The communication overhead is reduced by only requesting blocks after
the purported LCA. The security parameter $m$ is chosen to ensure that the
probability of the attacker producing a long superchain is negligible.

\subsection{Attacking chain superquality}
\label{subsec.superquality-attack}
We construct an adversary $\mathcal{A}$ that breaks the superchain quality at level $\mu$.
% Suppose $\mathcal{A}$ controls a portion $t/n$ of the hashing power.
$\mathcal{A}$ works as follows. Assume she wants to attack the honest party $B$
in order to have him adopt chain $\chain_B$ which has a bad distribution of
superblocks, i.e. such that local goodness is violated in some sufficiently long
subchain. She continuously determines the current chain $\chain_B$ adopted by
$B$. The adversary starts playing after $|\chain_B| \geq 2$. If
$\textit{level}(\chain_B[-1]) < \mu$, then $\mathcal{A}$ remains idle. However,
if $\textit{level}(\chain_B[-1]) \geq \mu$, then $\mathcal{A}$ attempts to mine
an adversarial block $b$ on top of $\chain_B[-2]$. If successful,  she attempts
to mine another block $b'$ on top of $b$. If successful again, she broadcasts
$b$ and $b'$. The adversarial mining continues until $B$ adopts a new chain,
which can be due to two reasons: Either the adversary successfully mined $b, b'$
on top of $\chain_B[-2]$ and $B$ adopts them; or one of the honest parties mined
a block which was adopted by $B$. In either case, the adversary restarts
the strategy by inspecting $\chain[-1]$ and acting accordingly. An execution of
this attack is illustrated in Figure~\ref{fig.superquality-attack}.

\begin{figure}[h]
    \caption{Superquality attack on prior work (PoPoW)~\cite{KLS}.
    The adversary performs a selfish-mining~\cite{selfish} attack (gray blocks)
    whenever any honest parties have recently mined a rare $\mu$-superblock
    (black). The attack reduces the honest chain's superquality, while the
    attacker's private chain is unaffected. }
    \centering
    \iftwocolumn
        \includegraphics[width=0.7 \columnwidth,keepaspectratio]{figures/superquality-attack-popow.png}
    \else
        \includegraphics[width=0.5 \columnwidth,keepaspectratio]{figures/superquality-attack-popow.png}
    \fi
    \label{fig.superquality-attack}
\end{figure}

Assume now that an honestly-generated $\mu$-superblock was adopted by $B$ at
position $\chain_B[i]$ at round $r$. We now examine the probability that
$\chain_B[i]$ will remain a $\mu$-superblock in the long run. Suppose $r' > r$
is the first round after $r$ during which a block is generated. $\mathcal{A}$
will succeed in this attack with non-negligible probability and cause $B$ to
abandon the $\mu$-superblock from their adopted chain. Therefore, there
exists $\delta$ such that the adversary will be able to cause $\delta$-variance
with non-negligible probability in $m$. This suffices to show that superquality
is violated.

As seen in the illustration, while the honest parties have generated several
$\mu$-superblocks, some of them are in blockchain forks which have been
abandoned, causing a superquality harm.

\subsection{A double-spending attack}
Extending the above attack, we modify the superquality attacker into an attacker
that causes a double spending attack in the PoPoW construction. We first give
a sketch of the attack.

As before, $\mathcal{A}$ targets the proofs generated by honest party $B$ by
violating $\mu$-superquality in $B$'s adopted chain. $\mathcal{A}$ begins by
remaining idle until a certain chosen block $b$. After block $b$ is produced,
$\mathcal{A}$ starts mining a secret chain which forks off from $b$ akin to a
selfish mining attacker~\cite{selfish}. The adversary performs a normal spending
transaction on the honestly adopted blockchain and has it confirmed in the block
immediately following block $b$. She also produces a double spending transaction
which she secretly confirms in her secret chain in the block immediately
following $b$.

$\mathcal{A}$ keeps extending her own secret chain as usual. However, whenever a
$\mu$-superblock is adopted by $B$, she temporarily pauses mining in her secret
chain and devotes her mining power to harm the $\mu$-superquality of $B$'s
adopted chain. Intuitively, for large enough $\mu$, the time spent trying to
harm superquality will be limited, because the probability of a $\mu$-superblock
occurring will be small. Therefore, the adversary's superchain quality will be
larger than the honest parties' superchain quality (which will be harmed by the
adversary) and therefore, even though the adversary's $0$-chain will be shorter
than the honest parties' $0$-chain, the adversary's $\mu$-superchain will be
longer than the honest parties' $\mu$-superchain and thus will be favored by the
verifier.
The probability of this attack succeeding is calculated formally and in detail
in the full version of this paper.
We just remark here that for appropriate choice of system parameters, the attack
can be made to succeed with overwhelming probability.
